- [Instructor] In this lesson, we look at the types of values and operators supported by JavaScript. We've seen that JavaScript can support things such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. It also supports something called the modulus operator, or the remainder. Let's talk about this a little bit. So I have in my Google Chrome, I've opened up my JavaScript console, and at the prompt, I'm do just a simple division problem. Let's do six divided by three, and press enter. When we do this, you should see that the response coming back is two. Let's look at the modulus operator, which shows us the remainder from a division problem. For example, let's see if we do six divided by three. So in my Google Chrome, in my JavaScript console, at the prompt, I'm going to type six divided by three, and press enter. Notice the response that comes back is two, is a whole number, or an integer value. That means that six divided by three is two with no remainder. Using our modulus operator, we can confirm that, so we can say six, the modulus operator, which is a percept sign, three. So in the JavaScript console, at the prompt, type six modulus three, or six percent sign three, press enter, notice that you get the value of zero. That is because six is evenly divisible by three, that is to say that three is a factor of six. Now, let's try something else. So we know that three is a factor of six. Is three a factor of seven? Probably not, and why do I say that? Because if it were a factor, the next factor would be six plus three, which is nine. Seven is in between six and nine, so this should not be evenly divisible by three. So if I say seven divided by three, I press enter, I get 2.3 repeating all the way out to a five. Essentially, it comes back to two and a third, or two with a remainder of one. So seven divided by three is two with a remainder of one. We can confirm this with the modulus operator by doing seven modulus three. If I press enter, it comes back with one. So the modulus operator, or the percent sign in this case, allows us to get the remainder from a division problem. Now what exactly does this allow us to do, though? Well first of all, one of the things it allows us to do is we can tell if a number is even or odd. Any number that is evenly divisible by two is considered even. That means anything modulus two that comes back zero is an even number. So what if I wanted to say six modulus two, and press enter, and it comes back zero. Six is an even number. But if I say seven modulus two, press enter, it comes back with the number one, which means that seven is considered an odd number, because it has a remainder when divided by two. Another thing the modulus can be seen as is it can be to help determine whether a number is a factor of another number. If a number is evenly divisible by another number, that number can be considered a factor. So on this last one, because six modulus two came back as zero, two is considered a factor of six. Is two considered a factor of seven? No, and that's because seven modulus two comes back with a value, with a remainder. So these are just a couple of applications of the modulus operator.