- In this exercise we are going to compare if/else if statements with switch statements. We're going to use the traffic light as an example. I have visual studio code open on my Mac, you would have this possibly on Windows or Linux as well. I'm going to go ahead and open up trafficLight-ifelse.js, this is in the folder in our class github repository, in the JavaScript folder, it's in a folder labeled 4 - Control Flow. Let's open up trafficLight-ifelse.js I'm also going to open up in that folder trafficLight-switch.js I'm going to double click on that as well. So now I have both trafficLight-ifelse.js and trafficLight-switch'js open. Now VisualStudio Code has an icon that has side by side panels to open these files side by side. It's called a split editor, so I'm going to go ahead click the split editor button. Notice how we see the trafficLight-switch.js side by side with itself. I'm going to close the trafficLight-swith.js on the left. So now we have trafficLight-ifelse.js on the left and trafficLight-swith.js on the right. I'm also going to go ahead and hide our editor so that we have more room for our code. What we have open is the same scenario represented two different ways. Traffic light color that will track which state the traffic light is in. We're going to initialize it, that's set it's starting value to green. Your traffic light is red, then we're going to write to the console "STOP", if the traffic light is yellow then we'll write to the console "SLOW DOWN", otherwise if the traffic light is something other than red or yellow we will log to the console "GO!!!!". This is true for both the if/else and for the switch statement. Our if/else goes through and it does an if for the initial condition it wants to check. In this case we're going to say if traffic light color is equal to red, notice we're using the double equal for comparison. It happens if that traffic light variable is set to red on line five. So, else if another condition, in this case, if traffic light color is yellow we're going to write to our console, so on line 6 console.log we're gonna log "SLOW DOWN". And finally, if our traffic light is some other color, that finally is a else in this case, we're going to say else console.log "GO!!!!". So, if, else if, else is what we have on the left. On the right hand side we have what we call a switch statement and we are switching on a variable that has a given state. So, we're switching on traffic light color, we're not switching on an expression, we're just switching on a variable with some kind of value. Then we use the case keyword for each different value that we care about. So, on line four in trafficLight-switch.js we have case red, followed by a colon, on line five we have our console.log "STOP". On line six we have something called break. Break allows to then get out of the switch statement after finishing this case. Line seven is for our else/if traffic light color equals yellow, the switch equivalent is yet another case. So, now we have case yellow followed by the colon and then on line eight we have console.log "SLOW DOWN". On line nine we have another break, this is to get out of the yellow case. This will return to whatever is outside of the switch. On line 10 we have the default keyword, default is the otherwise, you don't have another case in the switch statement so just run whatevers in default. That's why default doesn't have a break because default is the last thing that appears in the switch statement. So default will execute whatever it needs, in this case it will run console.log "GO!!!!" and then it will exit out of the switch statement. So a switch statement is another way to write if, elseif, else statement, just the value.