- [Instructor] As I mentioned in the introduction video for this JavaScript course, one of the goals that we wanna have for you by the end of this course is to be able to add a carousel to your restaurant website. In my example, I have a website for kolachkies. I like baking kolachkies and so I figured I'd create a website to show off my products. So what we have here is my home page for Sweets Shop with some of the pictures of my kolachkies that I make around the holiday time. And I'm not really a designer. But there's gotta be tools out there to make my life a bit easier. Well in our Bootstrap example back in our CSS lessons we saw that there were some JavaScript plugins. Now that we're in the JavaScript course let's look at their JavaScript plugins a little further. And specifically let's clean up these images. Let's put them in a rotating carousel. Go to the website, getbootstrap.com. This is the official Bootstrap website. I'm going to go to their JavaScript link. You'll notice at the top that it says that you can download the plugins individually or all at once. For this example, we're going to use what's on the CDN, all at once. We're not going to have them individually. We're specifically gonna look at the carousel so I'm gonna click on the carousel link here on the right. And this drops us into the carousel code. What's nice about the Bootstrap website is it tells us the name of the plugin, if it's got it's individual file, what's the name of that file, it explains what is the plugin. In this case, it talks to us about how carousel is a slideshow for cycling through elements, like a carousel. And then we've got an example plus some sample code. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to shrink down my browser so that I have my browser to the right hand side, I have my HTML code and my Visual Studio Code on the left. Now I wanna apply the carousel to my website. Well first before we get too carried away, let's look at the code that I have. So in my code, in my head tag, you're gonna notice I have links for CSS and I have links for JavaScript. My Bootstrap CSS is coming from the Bootstrap CDN. I also have another link to Google fonts because I am using a font from Google font. My JavaScript includes jQuery and the Bootstrap JavaScript plugins. Something to note with this is that the order matters. jQuery needs to be listed before Bootstrap as Bootstrap depends on jQuery to be there. With JavaScript, keep in mind that the scripts are going to be loaded from the top down. And so if I were to try to load Bootstrap without jQuery, it's going to get confused. We don't want that. Something in my body tag is that I have this div class equals container. You may remember from the CSS lessons on Bootstrap that you need to have this in there in order for the Bootstrap CSS to work. Now we wanna turn our pictures into a carousel. So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna to come over to their page. There's a link that says Copy to clipboard. So I'm gonna click on the Copy link. And it says Copied so it should be in my clipboard. I'm gonna come over to Visual Studio Code. After where my images are-- So I have three images that follow after my headings. So after those, I'm gonna go ahead and paste the code that I copied over from the Bootstrap site. Now what's nice is that Bootstrap has the sample code for us to use. So now, that I have the sample, I'm going to go ahead and add my images to it. So how do I do that? Well let's look at the pattern that the carousel has for their sample. You have this div with a specific id. This carousel-example-generic, with these data targets. Use data targets needed to match the div id up here. I've got our wrapper for the slides. This is where we'd put the images. Then we have our controls. This is what does the left and the right. So what I'm going to do is if we have another slide which we do. I'm going to grab this div, class equals item, all the way to where it ends. I highlight that and I'm gonna copy that. So I'm gonna right-click and copy. And then I'm going to put in a new line. And paste. Now we have three items in our carousel inner. And the reason why we have three items is because I have three pictures of kolachkies that I want to put in there. Now something else you should note is there's a pattern to the slides. It's outside is div class equals carousel-enter. Role equals listbox. The inside of it, you have these class equals items for each of the carousel items in there. They each have an image and they each have a carousel caption. So what I'm going to do, is each of my images, I'm going to put them from up top and put them where the image tag appears in our sample code. So I've grabbed one. And I'm gonna have three follow. And this is just because this is how they look. So I'm gonna paste that in there. I'm also going to come back up to the top, grab the last of my images. I'm highlighting it. I'm going to cut it. And I'm going to paste that. So what did is I removed the links for the images up at the top and I placed them into the wrapper for the slides that we copied from the Bootstrap website. Now if I go ahead and save this. I'm gonna go and save this. Then go back to my Chrome where I have my sample open. If I click Refresh, we should be passed the sad site of stacked images and hopefully using our carousel. Notice here are our controls. I can use the controls to go between the images. Again, what I did to get this to work is I made sure that I had my Bootstrap CSS linked in the header using the linked tag. I made sure I linked in my JavaScript using the script tags, using jQuery, using Bootstraps. The order again matters. jQuery has to come before Bootstrap otherwise the browser will complain. Once I had everything set up in the head, then I can go to the Bootstrap.com, click on their JavaScript link, click down to carousel which gives us some sample code to work with. Within that sample code, I clicked on the Copy link to copy the sample code to the clipboard. I pasted that in my Visual Studio Code in my HTML file. I moved my images from where they were in the body of my text down to the carousel. After saving it, I refreshed the browser. And now I have a carousel on my home page. Using this video as a guide, you should now be able to add a carousel to your restaurant site.