- [Presenter] Before you write code it is important to understand how to solve the problem in words so that you know which steps you need to take with your code. In this exercise we will look at a problem where we ask the user if they like cake. If they do not like cake then we will display a message that the cake is a lie. However, if they do like cake then we will ask what their favorite flavor of cake is and display a message that shows that they like that flavor. Let's write out the problem here so we can have a better idea of what's going on. Say we have our steps. Our steps are ask the user if they like cake. If they do not like cake we'll display a message that the cake is a lie. If they do like cake ask for their favorite flavor and display a message that they like that flavor. I'm going to expand our shape here so that all of our text can be seen. So the first thing I did is I wrote out the steps of how do we solve the problem. Now a common tool that we can use for showing this to end users for example is something called flowcharting. For the sake of our course we're going to use three common shapes. We're going to use an ellipse, more commonly represented as a circle. And we use that, I'm gonna bring that down here, we use that for start and we will also use that for end. We will have a rectangle. Let me put that down here and we use that for steps of the process. So for our steps and then we use our diamond, let's see if I can get the diamond up here. I'm going to give us a little more room to type in it. Our diamond is called a decision diamond. So if there's a decision that the user has to make then we will use a decision diamond. So let's outline our steps in what we call a flowchart. So we're going to bring out starting point up here at the very top of our flowchart. So we have a circle and in that circle it's going to say start. This is the start of our process. Off of start we will draw an arrow from the bottom of circle to bring in a rectangle and on that rectangle we're going to type ask the user if they like cake. So in the rectangle we're saying what we're going to do in terms of the step in the process. Now the user has to make a decision. Do they like cake or do they not like cake? So in order to deal with that we need a decision diamond. So I'm gonna bring out a decision diamond using lines to line this up and in our decision diamond I'm going to type does the user like cake? The text is going outside of the diamond so I'm going to resize our diamond to get the text to fit, going to line it up with our rectangle above for the process. I'm going to create an arrow between the ask the user if they like cake, it's going to point down to the decision diamond that is right below it. Let's see if we can get those to line up. Okay, so so far in our flowchart we have the circle, which is the start of our process. We're going to ask the user if they like cake, that's in a rectangle. I have an arrow pointing down to our diamond that says does the user like cake? Now with the decision diamond it has one of a couple options. We're gonna take the short path right now of does the user like cake? We're gonna say no the user doesn't like cake. So I'm going to click on the little arrow that appeared on the right-hand side to have it draw an arrow from the right side of the decision diamond and we're going to take out the decision diamond added and we're gonna bring in another rectangle. In the rectangle we're going to say display a message that the cake is a lie. Now our rectangle will need to connect to our end later on. We'll add the end once we're done with the flowchart. So now let's go back to the decision diamond that says does the user like cake. If you hover over it you should see the little triangles. We wanna click on the triangle pointing down to draw an arrow that's going to go down. It'll add a decision diamond. Let's remove that decision diamond and instead let's add another rectangle and in that rectangle we're going to ask the user for their favorite flavor of cake. And then we're gonna add another rectangle for display a message that the user likes that flavor. I'm going to go ahead and draw an arrow pointing down from ask the user for their favorite flavor of cake. That has a down arrow connecting to the rectangle that says display a message that the user likes that flavor. Finally we're at the end so I'm going to bring out another ellipse, I'm going to make it a little more circular by dragging it till it looks close enough to circular, line it up. I'm gonna type in there end and then I'm going to draw arrows, so I'm gonna use our arrows, bring that out here, and connect from display a message that the user likes that flavor to end. Then I'm also going to bring out another arrow where we're going to display a message that the cake is a lie. I'm gonna draw an arrow from that also to end. Now typically the lines, you wanna try to get them as straight as you can, preferably not rounded and not crossing each other. So in this exercise we talked about explaining the steps in words so that we know which steps we're gonna need to take with our code and we also learned abour flowcharting. We learned about the three common shapes used in our flowcharts. We talked about the circle that we use for start and end, we talked about the rectangle that we used for steps of the process, and we talked about the decision diamond for when the user has to make a yes or a no. One more thing we could add to this to make this a little bit easier to read is looking at the does the user like cake decision diamond on the arrows that are pointing either way we can add text to indicate what that decision is. So on the does the user like cake I can double-click the arrow between displaying a message that the cake is a lie, say no the user does not like cake. On the other line, the line coming down from does the user like cake I can double-click on there and say yes. So now you can see off the decision diamond that if the user does not like cake then we'll go to display a message, if the user does like cake then it will ask the flavor. So now we've added text to those lines to make that clear. So by seeing this you should now be able to start thinking about how to solve a problem and writing it out and then using these three common shapes to start building flowcharts to solve your problems.